Pacanono

All institutions - higher education, business, non-profit, government - create and compile hundreds of thousands of hours of informational video content every year.  In recent years, the mass adoption of web based video distribution by institutions has opened the information floodgates and created access to a wealth of informational video content as never before.   The problem is nobody's watching.   This is big-data that is opaque. 
 
I’m Jay Fedigan, a documentary filmmaker.  I also work quite a bit anking videos for Higher Ed and Healthcare.  Being from Boston I’m fortunate to  have the opportunity to work with some of the top universities and institutes in the world.

A colleague of mine, a video producer for one of the world’s most highly respected institutes cited a recent study.  The study said that the average time a viewer spent watching any of her renowned institution’s videos was only five minutes.  These were videos that could run over an hour in length.    As a response they opted to limit the length of their videos because that is the only available choice.  They don't have the tools in place to help the viewer identify which five minutes they want to watch.  Currently, if you try to search for anything beyond the most superficial - speaker’s name, video title or date recorded, you’re out of luck.  You can’t even locate a video clip by a PowerPoint slide or key word or phrase.  It’s like trying to identify a song you heard by looking at a pile of vinyl records.

Wouldn’t you like to be able to go to an institution’s web site and search for the videos where “Buckminster ‘Bucky’ Fuller’s public instillations” was mentioned in a speech or presentation and view and compare the different video clips?

There is technology available today that can help unlock the wealth of valuable metadata that is hidden within these massive video archives - technology that can make this information twenty-first century accessible.
We will be exploring the resources that are currently available: Drialogue analysis products and technologies ( which uses new technology From Nexidia’s web site ‘that  analyses the individual sounds of a given language rather than trying to recognize the half-million or so words that make up that language. In other words, we convert text to sounds, then look for that string of easily recognized sounds in your media.  This approach is far more accurate than speech-to-text applications. Nexidia’s dialogue analysis easily handles slang and proper names, is highly tolerant of spelling errors and poor audio quality, and doesn’t require frequent dictionary updates. It also supports multiple languages and dialects.); We will also look at the latest speech recognition software and advanced management capabilities for the storage and distribution for of high volumes of video and see what combinations can provide a solution.

These video archives are both the richest and the most under-developed source of metadata in digital media. It’s one thing to read a transcript but it is so much more meaning when you can see and hear the words for yourself.   
